---
layout: post
category: free-coding
title: Project Euler / Problem 13~20
description: Mort's solutions to Project Euler (source code released into the Public Domain)
tag: pe
disqus: true
---

h2. Problem 13

Find the first ten digits of the sum of one-hundred 50-digit numbers.

h3. Solution:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/1990379.js?file=pe013.py"></script>



h2. Problem 14

Find the longest sequence using a starting number under one million.

h3. Solution:

The most direct solution: produce the chain for each number between 1~1000000, and find out the maximum length.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/1997353.js?file=pe014_1.py"></script>

This can take more than 1 minute in Python:

bc. $ time python3 pe014_1.py 
837799 524
real	1m20.390s
user	1m20.055s
sys	0m0.033s

Using a trick that stores the lengths of all calculated chains into an array for future use, we cut down the execution time to only 5 seconds in Python:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/1997366.js?file=pe014_2.py"></script>

bc. $ time python3 pe014_2.py 
837799 524
real	0m5.163s
user	0m5.093s
sys	0m0.010s

Finally we have the C implementation, which produces the result in no time:
(*NOTE:* n must be defined as a 64-bit long long int here!)

<script src="https://gist.github.com/1997380.js?file=pe014.c"></script>

bc. $ gcc -o pe014 pe014.c -std=c99
$ time ./pe014 
837799 524
real	0m0.040s
user	0m0.037s
sys	0m0.000s



h2. Problem 15

Starting in the top left corner in a 20 by 20 grid, how many routes are there to the bottom right corner?

h3. Solution:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/1997621.js?file=pe015.py"></script>



h2. Problem 16

What is the sum of the digits of the number $2^{1000}$?

h3. Solution:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/1997659.js?file=pe016.py"></script>



h2. Problem 17

How many letters would be needed to write all the numbers in words from 1 to 1000?

h3. Solution:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/2000567.js?file=pe017.py"></script>



h2. Problem 18

Find the maximum sum travelling from the top of the triangle to the base.

h3. Solution:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/2000673.js?file=pe018.py"></script>



h2. Problem 19

How many Sundays fell on the first of the month during the twentieth century?

h3. Solution:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/2000782.js?file=pe019.py"></script>



h2. Problem 20

Find the sum of digits in 100!

h3. Solution:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/2000833.js?file=pe020.py"></script>

